# Stoicism  

Stoicism is rather a straightforward philosophy. Pleasure and pain are to be
handled in a very "grin-and-bear-it" manner. Its origins are somewhat obscure,
but its effects are rather striking. Take, for example, the classic "turn the
other cheek". Jesus was not the first to espouse this in the ancient world. To
be fair, he was the first to mean "in forgiveness", but that's beside the point.
Stoic philosophy dictates that if another harms you, you are to do _nothing_ in
response. Not retaliate, though simply walking away was considered cowardly but
acceptable. Obviously, this is rather impractical if one is being mugged or
fighting a war. But Stoics had thoughts on war, too: if all war is conflict,
then it must arise from a difference of opinions (or beliefs, policies, and the
like), by definition. But a mere difference of opinion does not create a war,
merely conflict. It takes conscious effort to escalate a mere disagreement into
a war, and such escalation goes directly against Stoicism's non-retaliation
principle. So, if the Stoics were in charge, there would be no war. Of course,
this is what the Stoics say, not anyone else. Go figure. At any rate, if you
were to ask a certain author named Ryan Holiday, he would say the same.
According to the Daily Stoic (as he's known), we are living in an age of
entitlement, offense, and outrage. All the world's problems can be traced back
to someone overreacting in some way. While this may technically be true, it's
not very helpful. Identifying the fix as something that each individual must
take large amounts of time and energy to remedy isn't likely to happen in a
population of around 8 Billion. Another pillar of Stoicism is perseverance. A
Stoic must, as Winston Churchill put it, "never give in, never give in, never,
never, never, never--in nothing, great or small, large or petty--never give in
except to convictions of honour and good sense. Never yield to force; never
yield to the apparently overwhelming might of the enemy." But all this is
actually superfluous to the essence of Stoicism, and it really is quite simple.
Live an ethical life. Everything else simply follows that single directive.

Britannica notes that Stoicism's "Chief competitors in antiquity were: (1)
Epicureanism, with its doctrine of a life of withdrawal in contemplation and
escape from worldly affairs and its belief that pleasure, as the absence of
pain, is the goal of humans; (2) Skepticism, which rejected certain knowledge
in favour of local beliefs and customs, in the expectation that those guides
would provide the quietude and serenity that the dogmatic philosopher (e.g.,
the Stoic) could not hope to achieve; and (3) Christianity, with its hope of
personal salvation provided by an appeal to faith as an immanent aid to human
understanding and by the beneficent intervention of a merciful God."
